Introduction

Content marketing is a great way to  get people talking about your 
products, your services, and your company. Content marketing is 
also a great way to engage your customers and maybe even create 
a community beside, In order to boost SEO rankings, gain traffic 
and/or leads, you need to have great content on your blog or website.
If you write original content, search engines will help your site get 
more exposure. For instance, Google has made it plain that they 
do not like and will penalize sites with duplicate content. Put 
another way, Google wants to reward high quality sites that 
contain original content. So not only does great content make a 
better website, it also improves your site’s rankings, which can 
have a very positive impact on your business.




Now let’s look at what makes great content, and then we’ll move on to sites that produce great content.

1- Define Your Content Marketing Goal
Before you look at what you're going to create, you need to answer why you're making it.

2- Decide Which Format of Content You Want to Produce
Blog posts, videos, podcasts, infographics--they all have their place in your content strategy and it's up to you how you use them. What's non-negotiable, however, is that they tell a story. there are 4 qualities your content needs to have:
•	Emotion: What emotion do we want people to feel?
•	Change: How are you changing people with your product or content? Does that emotion change them in a way that helps your brand?
•	Alert: Once you're changed someone, how do you build the privilege of being able to tell them when you have something new?
•	Share: How can you get people to tell each other?
3- Research and Understand Your Audience
Once you have a clear connection to why you're making content, the next step in building out your content marketing is to understand exactly who is going to see, hear, or watch the content you create.

4- Create Original Content
For your content marketing to be successful, you need to make sure you stay strategic in what you're creating and avoid falling into the trap of simply reacting and As mentioned, original content goes a long way with Google and your visitors. Copying other people’s content will result in a punishment from Google, which can crush your bottom line.
5- Choose a content management system
Have a system in place where you can manage your content. A few vital parts of content management include content creation, content publication, and content analytics.
If you're a HubSpot customer, you can plan, produce, publish, and measure your results all in one place using HubSpot software. Another content management system is a WordPress website hosted on WP Engine.

6- Start Building an Email List and Know How You're Going to Use It
Whatever content you're creating, you want to put it in front of the right people.
But before we get into distribution, leveraging social media and all of that, we need to talk about the most important piece of your content distribution puzzle: Email.
Email lets you communicate directly to your subscribers and gets you into their inboxes--where so many of us spend countless hours each week. Starting early with list-building is a great way to amplify the content you're creating.
7-  Use Social Media to Promote Your Content
It's pretty much impossible these days to separate your content marketing strategy from your social media strategy.

8- Always Focus On Creating Strong Headlines
A good headline sparks interest and invites readers in. Consider these great statistics from Copy blogger:

•	80% of people will read your headlines.
•	But only 20% of those people will read the rest of your content!

9- Make Your Content Actionable
The best content gives the user a sense of how to apply the information. It doesn’t degrade users by telling them what to do, but rather respects them and provides them with assurance that they know best how to use the material. When you write your blog post, give users tips on applying what you are offering them. Many times, just writing well about a topic will spark some ideas for readers.

10- Be Able to Provide Answers
when people are reading a blog post, viewing an infographic or watching a video — they want an answer so they can gain knowledge. An additional tip here is: people don’t just want answers, they want answers fast.


11- Be Accurate in Your Reporting and Sourcing of Information
Here's how Rand Fishkin, founder of Moz, explains the basics of using keyword research:
"When you're thinking about your audience, we want to take a look at the folks we know are in the group we want to target and ask 'what are they searching for today that they can't successfully find or aren't being well exposed to?'"
Think about this: you write an article for your company’s blog, thousands of people read it, and some of what you wrote turns out to be inaccurate. Can you imagine what damage this can do to your company and your personal reputation?
It’s important that any statistic you state can be verified. Many blog posts will link right to the statistic and the source.

Accuracy builds trust with readers!!!

Here are some tips to think about when you’re mulling over the issues of accuracy:
•	Consider who you are linking to. Are they a trusted and authoritative source? Linking to other quality websites will earn more trust from your readers.
•	Linking to more content can only help. The more you can back up and substantiate what you are writing about, the more trusted your content will become.
•	Help the search engines out. Linking to other sources and content will help the search engines figure out what your content is about, and how it should be categorized.

12- Create Engaging and Thought Provoking Content
Here are a few tips to help you write engaging content:
•	Leave readers with questions. This doesn’t mean to have an incomplete post, but rather to include questions that make readers reflect on how they can implement the knowledge you provided.

•	Have an important and promising introduction. Ever wondered how quickly people make judgments about blog posts? Most people probably decide within the first few sentences if the post is worth reading. Tell users why they should care and what you’ll be discussing in the blog post. Make them want to read it.
•	People love stories. You can use an anecdote in your introduction or have a story woven into your blog post. Stories can also help clarify a point. When possible, add a story to your blog post. It will make it more engaging and may also help the reader learn.

13- Communicate Better by Adding Images and Video
People learn differently. Some people learn better by seeing, while others learn better by hearing. What’s important is that no one learns less by having visual aids. Whether you use pictures, videos, or diagrams, they can help illustrate your point. Open any modern textbook and you’ll find pictures used to enhance the reading experience and to reinforce the author’s lesson.
Whatever you’re writing about, add pictures. No one wants to look at paragraphs of text, unless you’re writing a book.
14- Write Short and Pointed Content
There is nothing better than a brief, to-the-point blog post or article that is filled with information.
So don’t focus on word count. A longer blog post does not mean a better blog post. And often, keeping a blog post short is more difficult and actually takes more time than just writing as much as you can.
15- Outline Which Tactics You're Going to Experiment With
Now that you've got your content together, how are you going to promote or distribute it? You have to be productive with your marketing efforts, because if no one sees, listens, or reads the content you've put so much time into creating, was it even worth writing it in the first place?
CoSchedule's Garrett Moon says it's important to find your 'blue ocean' opportunities--places where you're not fighting with existing markets and can do your best work. Well here is a few tips for it:
•	Observe your competitors: What are they doing, where are they publishing, and how are they using email? Understand what your customers are already seeing.
•	Search relevant topics on Google: Look at the top 10 results and see what's there. How long is the content. What images are being used? What's consistent or stands out?
•	Ask yourself: What are you and your team really good at? What are the patterns that your competition are falling into that you can disrupt? Are there people in your audience that you aren't serving? What have you created that you're the most proud of?


16- Make Continual Updates to Your Website or Blog
Starting a blog or website is a commitment. While you can write a couple of posts and then abandon the work, you won’t get many readers or new customers. Not just that, but search engines don’t favor sites that aren’t regularly updated.
If you have a blog or content site, you need to update it regularly with great content. Many of the best content sites are regularly updated. You should make an effort to update at least twice a week. It is a content site you’re building, after all.


*A few final points about writing content:
- How To’s
By now, it’s likely that you’re not only an expert on your products, but on your industry as well. And, chances are, most of your target audience is not—which is the perfect opportunity for you to help inform them. Start with the basics and educate them with user-friendly how to’s—for example, if you make an online learning app, offer tips for “how to succeed in a distance education environment.” This can be done as a blog post, quirky video, or infographic—but whatever form it takes, keep it light, simple, and informative.
- Behind the Scenes
People love to feel like they have the inside scoop. And, while your day-to-day may not seem all that exciting, your audience might think otherwise. For example, if you’re at a trade show reviewing suppliers for your next product, whip out your phone and take a shot of the event. This simple sharing of information provides your audience with unparalleled access to your brand, while adding a human touch to what you do.
-Founders’ Corner
Not only will your audience like getting the inside scoop, they’ll also appreciate getting to know the founders. Make sure you as a founder have a presence on your site, and contribute to it regularly. Many companies have a founders’ blog, which addresses topics ranging from the latest on industry trends to personal stories about navigating the entrepreneurial landscape. This is an opportunity to provide your audience with unique content in an enticing way, and it’s also a great PR platform.
-Do keyword research
Forget keyword optimization, long-tail keyword stuffing, and all the other word weirdness that used to work. It’s not only not effective, it might actively hurt your search engine rank.
That does not mean you should stop doing keyword research.  Keywords reveal what people are talking about, responding to, and sharing.
Use popular topics for inspiration and find a new angle, or combine ideas to add depth.

- Test your titles
When running keyword research for the screenshot above, Buzzsumo yielded “Marketing Is Dead, and Loyalty Killed It,” and I was hooked. I had to stop working and read it. That’s what your title should be, an irresistible lure.


*Don’t treat a blog post or any other sort of content site lightly. It’s difficult, and good ones take time to research and write. Proper title, grammar, and organization are a must. When you reread your post, ask yourself:
•	Are there any words I can take out?
•	Have I given the readers the best information I possibly can?
•	Is it complete?

